Our next speaker is Maché and he's going to talk about us, about hunting bugs and how
do we hunt bugs?
We do that by sending a bunch of random input into our programs or more scientifically called
fuzzing.
Round of applause.
All right, welcome.
So in the spirit of testing, let's talk about fuzzing.
So I'm Maché, I'm an offensive security engineer, I've introduced the platform engineer and
software engineer, I sail, climb and play board games.
So what we'll talk about, we'll talk about fuzzing, we'll talk about differential fuzzing,
how it differs from fuzzing and we'll talk about bugs that are in the sun in the library
and how you can actually find those bugs and fix them using fuzzing.
And then at the end we'll talk about fuzzing in continuous integration pipelines.
So what we'll not talk about is how fuzzing works under the hood.
There are excellent resources out there that we'll talk about like fuzzing engines and
like other stuff.
I'll link to them in the end, but this talk is not about this.
Why should it occur?
So there's an OSS Fuzz project, who's familiar with this?
Cool.
So this is a kind of a platform that gives open source projects computer resources to
run Fuzz tests continuously.
And there's about 1,000 projects in there and within a six or seven years it has found
10,000 vulnerabilities and 36,000 bugs.
And if you do a simple math, that's 10 vulnerabilities per project and 36 bugs per project.
So this seems like an F word that's worth investing in.
So let's assume we have a simple function, it accepts the string, mutates it and it gives
you a transform string back and it transforms letters or characters in the alphabet to a
character that is fricking positions later.
So you get n for a, o for b and b for c and so on and so forth.
So in your regular testing, you'll come up with some inputs, you put those inputs into
the function and then you make assertions based if the output is correct.
You're all familiar with this probably, you can run this using your standard Go CLI.
With fuzzing, the situation changes a little bit.
Instead of your device input, your things you came up with, you have a random input,
you put it into the function and make some assertions.
It looks very similar and is supported in Go from like Go 1.18 and you can also run
this using the CLI.
You see some boilerplate around the test but you know, in the middle you basically have
your unit test that you had before.
I intentionally left the assertion blank because how the assertion stuff, if you don't know
the input, right?
If you run the fast test, you'll see that it tries hundreds of thousands of inputs per
second in this instance and it runs indefinitely.
So you can run it as long as you want.
As you've seen, it's easy to create fast tests if you have unit tests in place.
So there is no reason not to do it really.
One thing that we haven't talked about is that it's not our magic.
You still have to kind of instruct the fuzzing engine to be able to come up with inputs that
make sense for your test.
So you can actually reuse the inputs you use for unit tests and add them to what's called
the corpus and that tells the fuzzing engine to come up with something that's similar but
quite random as well.
Add the inputs from your unit test.
That helps a lot.
I've talked about those assertions that might be pretty tricky to come up with them if you
don't really know what the input is.
So what you commonly see in fast tests is that they don't make any assertions.
They just, the engine just checks if the function crashed, which is still very efficient because
it tells you that there are some out of ground size axes, for instance.
But you should and can assert an invariance of things that don't change and in our instance,
for instance, there is a property to the ROT13 function that you can actually call it twice
and you get the input back.
And this holds true for anything that has an inverse symbol.
So if you have an inverse function, you can make a simple search like this, which is called
ROT13 and ROT13 and then you expect the input back.
If it doesn't agree, it's, you know, the test fails.
Some examples that are commonly used are encoders, decoders, marshallers and marshallers.
You can just call the things, you know, decode the encoded thing and you should get the input
back.
There's other stuff, like if you do a SHA sum, for instance, you always expect it to
return 32 bytes.
But there is other technique.
And what if you had two implementations of ROT13, right?
Something that you wrote and then, you know, something else.
And that's called differential fuzzing.
So basically, you get a random input, you put it through two implementations and you
see if they disagree.
So, you know, think about for a moment and, like, where can we get those second implementations
from?
The first thing is refactoring.
Let's say you have your function but, you know, it's unreadable, maybe it's not performance
enough, so you're refactoring the code for whatever reason.
You can save your old implementation to the site and use it to basically reference it
when you refactor the codes.
The second example is performance.
You might have, you might maintain two implementations in the first place.
For instance, you are following a specification closely and, you know, the first implementation
is written very closely spec, but it might be inefficient.
But the second one is heavily optimized, but it might be not quite readable.
You know, you might have some straight buffers or, you know, whatever.
The third option, which is really interesting, is that there is a C library that does a similar
thing.
And you can use C go to college.
And that's what we'll explore further.
So back in January last year, I saw an interesting bug report and I can go with a newsletter
where there was an issue with the HTML tokenizer, basically the piece of the, or part of the
experimental library that does HTML tokenization.
And the thing was that it was incorrectly interpreting comments and this led to an excess
attack.
So what does an HTML tokenizer do?
It basically takes a HTML input and it gives you the HTML token.
So for this example, for instance, you have a paragraph and a text inside and an anchor
afterwards.
You'll get start attack of P, text, and then the text inside and tag of P and then start
attack of A. This is a very well-defined process and there is an HTML specification for it.
It's very high in detail.
It's easy to follow.
And it's a state machine which will become important later.
If you look at the go implementation, though, it's not a state machine.
And it's not quite easy to follow, at least for me.
So I thought, you know, if there wasn't a report for it, there might be other bugs lurking
around.
So let's, you know, let's use that function a bit and make another one that gives you
a list of tokens because the API works in a stringing way.
So we'll just call the tokenizer, collect all tokens, and then return the tokens it
generates.
So you know, when we, let's say, start with the fuzzing, we will supply some HTML input
to the corpus and then call the tokenize function without making any assertions.
And there are no results.
It doesn't crash.
Something will be expected from, you know, from some library or from the experimental
part of it.
So let's try differential fuzzing, right?
We'll have the, our tokenizer function that we wrote and some alternative implementation
for it.
And if they don't agree, we'll fail.
And as you can imagine, because the, you know, C ecosystem is very mature, there probably
is a library that does the same thing.
So in this case, I found Legsport, which is a web browser engine that, you know, is a
software library.
It has no extra dependencies.
It has a Poshy to Prenel license.
It sounds about perfect for what we want to achieve.
So don't look at this slide really.
It's, you know, it's basically implementing the tokenize function that we implemented
using the Nets HTML tokenizer, but using the Legsport.
It's actually a lot more complicated than that, but we'll be good for our tests.
So we call the tokenize and Legsport tokenize and do some equality checks and if they fail,
we fail the test.
And it found something.
So there is some weird looking HTML codes, looks, month forms, and Legsport says that,
you know, it's an ATAC, but Nets HTML library is like, oh, there's nothing in there.
So let's transform this a bit and let's see what the browser thinks.
So we have these agreements.
Could this be a security issue?
So what if we made trust decisions based on the tokenizer?
And so imagine you have like some, you know, user input on your website, you accept the
HTML inputs and, you know, you decide whether the staff people input is safe to display
or not.
And you should, by the way, you really shouldn't do this, but we'll have a S-save function
that will return the Boolean, whether it's safe or not, and we'll just look for the tokens
we get and only allow strong tags and nothing else, strong attacks and text tokens.
So the S-save method thinks that, you know, the thing that we got from the fuzzing is
safe because it thinks there's nothing in it.
But the browser says otherwise.
When you look at the documentation, though, there will be a security consideration section
in the HTML tokenizer and it says, you know, care should be taken, especially with regard
to unstressed inputs.
If your use case requires a well-formed HTML, the parser should be used rather than the
tokenizer.
So let's implement this using the parser, right?
I want to go into detail, but we use the parser here.
That's also in the same library.
The thing is the parser also thinks this is safe, and the reason is it uses the tokenizer
underneath, so it doesn't really, you know, differentiate between the two.
So we still get the XSS.
So we have two things.
You know, the first thing is that the documentation could be improved because it's unclear.
It's tier C in the wrong direction, and second, that there is a bug in the tokenizer.
So I thought, right, if there was a vulnerability report in the VRP program for the common thing,
I'll do the same thing.
So I submitted a VRP report.
There was some back and forth.
They closed my ticket.
I told them to reopen it.
They reopened it.
And the result of that was that there was a documentation update, which is cool.
And they say that in security context, if trust decisions are being made, the input must
be recerealized, for instance, using render or token string.
So what they are saying is that instead of doing, you know, a safe function that returns
a boolean, you should actually transform the input and construct it in a way that, you
know, basically sanitize this, transform the string.
And there are two ways to do this.
One is to use the token.stream function, which, you know, when you loop over the tokens,
you can reconstruct the input or render when you use the parser.
A few months pass, and there is a comment to the library.
And they fix the actual bug.
So, you know, handle equal signs before attributes, and they quote the spec and fix the debug
that was there.
So now if you call the is safe function, it returns false.
That's pretty cool.
But let's run the fuzzer again.
I mean, you know, you get something that is very similar, and it acts the same way.
So I thought, all right, I have this fuzzer.
It's not pretty.
You know, it has no way to reach the standard test suite.
But we can, you know, learn the code base and iterate over it.
So run the, you know, fix the problem, run the fastest again, and then, you know.
So I prepared the patch, and you've seen I get it screened today already.
It has the code review, but as Jonathan mentioned, you need a lot of patience.
It's been stuck in, like, ready to submit for like three months, I think.
So it still hasn't reached master, but it's close, I think.
But when you run the fastest again, there are no more findings.
So the takeaway from this is that fuzzing is very effective, and differential fuzzing
helps write correct for code.
So let's talk about what are good testing candidates.
We've used it on parsers, which are pretty complex codes.
You can use them to get the coders and coders, you know, marshallers, and any complex code
that, you know, can be unit tested, basically.
But running those tests in CI is kind of traumatic, at least in my experience, because it's not
really mature enough yet, I think.
And when you run the go-pest fuzzing vocation, it can only run a single fuzz test.
So people have been doing a lot of hacks, like, grabbing this fuzz code, trying to find
those fuzz targets, you know, sleeping, like, some pretty hacky buskers, for instance.
There is also a very cool project called Cluster Fuzz Lite.
It's actually a subset of OSS Fuzz that you can run in your CI.
But we found some problems with it.
First, it has problems with extracting and failing inputs.
Like, if you have a byte array, for instance, it doesn't really translate one-to-one to
what the actual input is, because you have to apply some of your own transformations
over it, and it's being convenient to run locally.
So we built Go-CIFuzz.
And it's kind of a lightweight wrapper around go-test fuzz.
And it separates multiple test targets, and it allows you to extract inputs.
So if you want to give it a try, there is a link here.
And, yeah, good to go.
And it's basically plug-and-play, drag-and-drop.
You can use it to run fastest as part of your pull request workflow, or you run it on schedule,
so, like, you know, during the night, or whatever, whenever you want to run this.
All right.
So we've placed for it.
But, yeah, if you want to, you know, say hello, there is my email address and my handle.
And also, I wrote a blog post about this, but it goes more in detail about this actual
finding.
And there are some references.
You have the, if you want to start fuzzing, there is a very excellent introduction to
it in the Go documentation.
There's also Goode's article on Wikipedia on how it works under the hood.
And there's a link to clusterfuzzlight, the Go-CIFuzz, the blog post, and also a pretty
interesting entry in this list is the second one.
So there was a recent paper from Google where they use AI to actually generate the fastest.
So maybe you don't really need to write them, and AI will be able to do it for you.
All right.
So if there are any questions, happy to answer.
Any questions?
We still have some time.
And the front.
That's nice.
Okay.
How many minutes do you run the fuzzer in the CI because this is important, right?
Because it costs money.
That's true.
Yeah.
So, you know, it depends on the workflow.
So for instance, when it's a pull request, you really don't want people waiting.
We run this for like five to six minutes.
It's enough time in our experience to catch like those bugs that are, you know, the edge
cases that are quite common.
But you can run this indefinitely during the night, and it depends on how much money
you want to spend for your CI runs.
Yeah.
All right.
Any other questions?
Questions.
Can you keep your hands up and I can go to the right row if you could pass us along.
Have you tried to fuzz only inserting random strings or like also a combination of valid
tokens in different order?
Could you please bring?
From what I got from the slide, if I'm not wrong, you were like inputting the data.
You were like putting random strings, right?
Okay.
So how it works really is that you provided a starting corpus.
So like your, think about your unit test inputs and then the fuzzing engine underneath takes
those inputs and puts transformations on them.
So every time you'll get a slightly different input.
It won't be completely different, but it will be a bit more formed.
So like if you saw these, the findings for instance here, right?
It outputs all, well it outputs a valid HTML or almost valid HTML.
So it kind of reached this conclusion based on some coverage data it found.
So like it also looks at test covers.
So when it runs the fastest, it kind of captures which branches of code have been covered and
tries to reach the other that have been not covered.
So it's kind of an interactive process where it applies transformations to the inputs.
Right.
There's another one.
How does the engine know which part of the corpus it might change and which not so it
doesn't only input like random strings as I could obtain from the random package?
Could you repeat the beginning or the question?
Yeah, sure.
The fuzzing engine, you give it a set of example strings.
How does it know which part of that it may change and so that it doesn't just put in
random things?
Okay.
So I don't know the exact details, but I think it works that it makes a change and it looks
at the coverage data.
So it looks at the branches, it kind of discovers when it made the change and it will note some
interesting inputs and then try those inputs.
So like if the coverage increases, it will try to make more transformations similar to
the one that it makes.
Yeah, one more.
What kind of coverage metric is it?
The question is what kind of coverage metric it is.
I think it's, I'm not so sure, but I think it's branch coverage based.
If you run the fastest with some variable flags, you will see that there are coverage
bits and I think it tells you how much coverage there is for a particular input.
All right.
There's one more.
One second.
I can probably just speak up.
So the question is, there is a go cache or when you run fastest, there is a cache folder
that will capture the inputs already run and the question is whether the tool will or can
support this.
And the question is, the answer is it doesn't right now, but it's planned.
So for those that are unaware, when you run a run fast test, there is a directory that
will capture all the input it has tried or the interesting ones.
And when you run this again, it will start from the point, which is really handy because
you will not do the same work every time or a similar work.
You can start from where you left.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah, there is one more.
The question is slightly tangential to this directly, but you said we provide a starting
corpus and then there's transformations on that, which is run against whatever we're
testing.
So is there a way to optimize the starting corpus to increase the kind of test cases
that are actually generated by the FuzzError?
Is there a way where the starting corpus can be designed to cover as many edge cases as
possible?
Okay.
So there are similar perspectives to this.
There are corpus that you can find online in GitHub, for instance, that you can employ
in your FuzzTests.
Also when there's a finding, for instance, when you run the FuzzTest and you find a string,
it will add it to the corpus that you have in your repo.
So when you run this, there will be a directory created in your repository that's called test
data.
And inside that test data folder, this will be captured.
And you should actually commit that folder to your repo so that every next time you run
the FuzzTest, it will actually check for regressions.
So yeah, I hope this answers your question.
Any more?
Thank you.
Are there ways to customize the kind of transformations that are applied by the FuzzError?
Not in the Go Native FuzzTests.
So there are other tools that have been used before, and Go introduced native fuzzing.
There is libfuzzer, for instance, that's very commonly used by the OSS Fuzz.
And I believe if you use that, you can customize it.
But the way native Go tests work is that they actually use libfuzzer, but it's not very
configurable.
So it's supposed to be good developer experience-wise and cover most of the needs that you need,
but I don't think you can drive the transformations from it.
I'm going to end the questions here.